[Docs] add section on configuration sources and overrides to docs (#5227)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/reference/config.rst

* :ref:`nvidia_gpus.disable_ecc <config-yaml-nvidia-gpus-disable-ecc>`
* :ref:`kubernetes.pod_config <config-yaml-kubernetes-pod-config>`
* :ref:`kubernetes.provision_timeout <config-yaml-kubernetes-provision-timeout>`
* :ref:`gcp.managed_instance_group <config-yaml-gcp-managed-instance-group>`

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

  # job or task yaml
  config:
    docker:
      run_options: ...
    kubernetes:
      pod_config: ...
      provision_timeout: ...
    gcp:
      managed_instance_group: ...
    nvidia_gpus:
      disable_ecc: ...

.. _config-client-cli-flag:

**CLI flag**

| You can pass configuration arguments to the CLI using the ``--config`` flag.
| ``--config`` flag can either be a path to a config YAML file, or a dotlist of key-value pairs. Only one ``--config`` flag can be provided.

Example:

.. code-block:: bash

  # pass a config file
  sky launch --config my_config.yaml ...
  # pass individual config options
  sky launch --config 'kubernetes.provision_timeout=600,kubernetes.pod_config.spec.priorityClassName=high-priority' ...
  # list and dictionary syntax are supported
  sky launch --config 'kubernetes.allowed_contexts=[context1,context2]' ...

>   sky launch --config 'kubernetes.custom_metadata.annotations={"myannotation": "myvalue"}}' ...

Author: TODO for self: verify these examples actually work

Advanced Configuration
======================

You can pass **optional configuration** to SkyPilot.

Any new configuration provided does not affect existing clusters.

> Configuration sources

Author: I ended up doing something like
<img width="769" alt="Screenshot 2025-04-16 at 6 49 26 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/baec6f35-b32f-47d3-8c92-8426f40ccb3e" />

---------------------

Client-side configuration sources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::

  ``allowed_clouds`` and ``admin_policy`` are ignored if specified in client configuration sources.

.. _config-client-cli-flag:

> 

Reviewer: Can we move the figure up here at the top with a two line explaination? To serve as a one-shot reference for the config hierarchy

Author: I tried reorganizing the sections, lmk what you think

> **CLI flag**

Author: Yeah I agree it makes sense to lead with the most general config, reversed the ordering

You can pass configuration arguments to the CLI using the ``--config`` flag.

> ``--config`` flag can either be a path to a YAML file meeting configuration, or a dotlist of key-value pairs.

Reviewer: Maybe add "If a config file is passed, all other `--config` flags are ignored".

Author: added "only one `--config` flag can be provided"

> ``--config`` flag can either be a path to a YAML file meeting configuration, or a dotlist of key-value pairs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``--config`` flag can either be a path to a config YAML file, or a dotlist of key-value pairs.
```

.. _config-priority:

| When multiple configuration sources are specified, SkyPilot combines them based on the following priority:

  highest priority

  #. CLI flag
  #. Task YAML
  #. Project configuration
  #. User configuration
  #. Server configuration

>   lowest priority

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove the blockquote (the indent) and the "highest priority"/"lowest priority". If you are concerned that people will think the priority is backwards, we can clarify in the sentence above: "When multiple configuration..."

Author: Done - I agree the numbered list should do a good enough job of conveying priority, if all else fails the diagram does a good job of clearing things up.

.. _config-server-config:

> **Server Configuration**

Reviewer 2: I think we can use subsections for these.
```suggestion
Server Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```
applies to all the following sections.

Author: Ah yeah, that is indeed better for the sidebar indexing stuff

>   sky launch --config 'aws.labels={"map-migrated": "my-value", "Owner": "user-unique-name"}' ...

Author: (closing this as a duplicate of https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/pull/5227#discussion_r2047582242)

>   sky launch --config 'aws.labels={"map-migrated": "my-value", "Owner": "user-unique-name"}' ...

Author: Updated examples, let me know if they look good (assuming they actually work, which I'll test)

> | SkyPilot server looks for ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` to find the server configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| SkyPilot server looks for ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` in the API server instance/container to find the server configuration.
```

* :ref:`nvidia_gpus.disable_ecc <config-yaml-nvidia-gpus-disable-ecc>`
* :ref:`kubernetes.pod_config <config-yaml-kubernetes-pod-config>`
* :ref:`kubernetes.provision_timeout <config-yaml-kubernetes-provision-timeout>`
* :ref:`gcp.managed_instance_group <config-yaml-gcp-managed-instance-group>`

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

  # job or task yaml
  config:
    docker:
      run_options: ...
    kubernetes:
      pod_config: ...
      provision_timeout: ...
    gcp:
      managed_instance_group: ...
    nvidia_gpus:
      disable_ecc: ...

.. _config-client-project-config:

**Project Configuration**

SkyPilot looks for ``$pwd/.sky.yaml`` to find project configuration.

To specify a different file, set ``SKYPILOT_PROJECT_CONFIG`` environment variable to the desired path.

.. _config-client-user-config:

**User Configuration**

SkyPilot looks for ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` to find user configuration.

To specify a different file, set ``SKYPILOT_USER_CONFIG`` environment variable to the desired path.

Server-side configuration sources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _config-server-project-config:

**Project Configuration**

> SkyPilot looks for ``$pwd/.sky.yaml`` to find project configuration.

Reviewer 2: wait what? what does server-side pwd mean?

Author: the server also relied on user / project config file parsing prior to https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/pull/5250 - this should no longer be the case after that PR is merged.

> To specify a different file, set ``SKYPILOT_PROJECT_CONFIG`` environment variable to the desired path.

Reviewer: This is not server side is it?

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we should not draw a distinction in client-side/server-side in the headings, and just present the following headings:
* CLI
* Project level
* Client-side Global config
* Server-side Global config
  * mention that this is the same as client-side global config in the local API server case.

Author: it indeed was, should be made simpler with https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/pull/5250.

.. _config-server-user-config:

**User Configuration**

SkyPilot looks for ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` to find user configuration.

To specify a different file, set ``SKYPILOT_USER_CONFIG`` environment variable to the desired path.

Configuration overrides
-----------------------

If the same configuration field is specified in multiple configuration sources, configuration is combined according to following precedence:

> **TODO change this to an actual diagram about config precedence**

Author: note for self: update diagram once the rest of the content is approved

.. image:: ../images/skypilot-abstractions-long-2.png
    :width: 90%
    :align: center

| Example:

> If a SkyPilot server is configured with the following user-level config file:

Reviewer: Should we call it just `global config`?

Author: now we can (also ref: https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/pull/5250), I actually want to call it the `server config`

> If a SkyPilot server is configured with the following user-level config file:

Reviewer 2: link "user-level config file" to the section above

.. code-block:: yaml

  kubernetes:
    allowed_contexts: [context1, context2]
    provision_timeout: 600
  aws:
    labels:
      map-migrated: my-value
      Owner: user-unique-name

> And the following project-level config file:

Reviewer 2: link "project-level config file" to the corresponding section above

> If a SkyPilot server is configured with the following :ref:`user config file<config-client-user-config>`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the following is configured in the :ref:`user config file<config-client-user-config>`:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

  # project-level config has precedence over user-level config
  kubernetes:
    allowed_contexts: [context3, context4]
    provision_timeout: 300
  aws:
    labels:
      Owner: project-unique-name

The combined configuration is:

.. code-block:: yaml

  kubernetes:
    # lists are overridden by config sources with higher precedence
    allowed_contexts: [context3, context4]
    provision_timeout: 300
    aws:
      # dicts are merged, with individual keys overridden by
      # config sources with higher precedence
      labels:
        map-migrated: my-value
        Owner: project-unique-name

> 

Reviewer: Should we add a quick note that admins can enforce validation and global override behavior though admin policy and have a pointer?

Author: I guess I want to merge this independent of admin policy changes, so I'm planning on doing the docs update for admin policy changed with / after the code change for it. This is mostly because I'm starting to be skeptical on if admin policy can do what we want it to do, and requires more thought.

Reviewer 2: It's fine if we want to avoid the admin policy stuff for now, but we should at least mention which fields cannot be locally overridden (for now). https://github.com/skypilot-org/skypilot/blob/134b8feb0fcbe0a0d1763592a4186dd172e9f41a/sky/skylet/constants.py#L344-L348

Author: Yeah, technically `api_server` config is applied client-side to talk to the right server so it's not ignored per se, just not passed to the server. I'll mention admin policy and allowed clouds.

Advanced Configuration
======================

You can pass **optional configuration** to SkyPilot.

Any new configuration provided does not affect existing clusters.

Summary
-------

| You can specify advanced configuration at ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` following the :ref:`configuration syntax<config-yaml-syntax>`.
| You can override configuration for a command using ``--config`` flag in the :ref:`CLI<config-client-cli-flag>`.
| You can layer configurations by leveraging multiple :ref:`configuration sources<config-sources>`.

.. _config-sources:

Configuration sources
---------------------

.. image:: ../images/config-sources.svg
    :width: 90%
    :align: center
    :alt: Configuration Sources

.. _config-priority:

| When multiple configuration sources are specified, SkyPilot combines them based on the following priority:

#. CLI flag
#. Task YAML
#. Project configuration
#. User configuration
#. Server configuration

.. _config-server-config:

> Server configuration
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 
> | SkyPilot server looks for ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` in the API server instance/container to find the server configuration.
> | To specify a different file, set ``SKYPILOT_SERVER_CONFIG`` environment variable to the desired path.

Reviewer 2: Sorry I didn't mention this before, but we should explicitly clarify how this works for local API server. We could probably just do something like this:
```suggestion
Server configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| If you are using a shared :ref:`SkyPilot API server <sky-api-server>`, it looks for ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` in the API server instance/container to find the server configuration.
| To specify a different file, set ``SKYPILOT_SERVER_CONFIG`` environment variable to the desired path.
```

Author: Tried applying the changes, rendered it, looks good, thx for the swanky hyperlink

.. _config-client-user-config:

User configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| SkyPilot client looks for ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` to find the user configuration.
| To specify a different file, set ``SKYPILOT_USER_CONFIG`` environment variable to the desired path.

.. _config-client-project-config:

Project configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| SkyPilot client looks for ``$pwd/.sky.yaml`` to find the current project configuration.
| To specify a different file, set ``SKYPILOT_PROJECT_CONFIG`` environment variable to the desired path.

.. _config-client-job-task-yaml:

Job / task YAML
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| You can specify inline configuration options in task or job YAML files.

> | Following fields are supported in task or job YAML inline configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The following fields are supported in task or job YAML inline configuration:
```

* :ref:`docker.run_options <config-yaml-docker-run-options>`
* :ref:`nvidia_gpus.disable_ecc <config-yaml-nvidia-gpus-disable-ecc>`
* :ref:`kubernetes.pod_config <config-yaml-kubernetes-pod-config>`
* :ref:`kubernetes.provision_timeout <config-yaml-kubernetes-provision-timeout>`
* :ref:`gcp.managed_instance_group <config-yaml-gcp-managed-instance-group>`

Example:

.. code-block:: yaml

  # job or task yaml
  config:
    docker:
      run_options: ...
    kubernetes:
      pod_config: ...
      provision_timeout: ...
    gcp:
      managed_instance_group: ...
    nvidia_gpus:
      disable_ecc: ...

.. _config-client-cli-flag:

CLI flag
~~~~~~~~

| You can pass configuration arguments to the CLI using the ``--config`` flag.

> | ``--config`` flag can either be a path to a config YAML file, or a dotlist of key-value pairs. Only one ``--config`` flag can be provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The ``--config`` flag can either be a path to a config YAML file, or a dotlist of key-value pairs. Only one ``--config`` flag can be provided.
```

Example:

.. code-block:: bash

  # pass a config file
  sky launch --config my_config.yaml ...
  # pass individual config options
  sky launch --config 'kubernetes.provision_timeout=600,kubernetes.pod_config.spec.priorityClassName=high-priority' ...
  # list and dictionary syntax are supported
  sky launch --config 'kubernetes.allowed_contexts=[context1,context2]' ...
  sky launch --config 'kubernetes.custom_metadata.annotations={"myannotation1": "myvalue1", "myannotation2": "myvalue2"}' ...
  # this command is equivalent to the command above
  sky launch --config 'kubernetes.custom_metadata.annotations.myannotation1=myvalue1,kubernetes.custom_metadata.annotations.myannotation2=myvalue2' ...

Configuration overrides
-----------------------

> If the same configuration field is specified in multiple configuration sources, configuration is combined based :ref:`priority<config-priority>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the same configuration field is specified in multiple configuration sources, configuration is combined based on :ref:`priority<config-priority>`.
```

Example:

If the following is configured in the :ref:`user config file<config-client-user-config>`:

.. code-block:: yaml

  kubernetes:
    allowed_contexts: [context1, context2]
    provision_timeout: 600
  aws:
    labels:
      map-migrated: my-value
      Owner: user-unique-name

> And the following :ref:`project config file<config-client-project-config>`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And the following in the :ref:`project config file<config-client-project-config>`:
```

You can pass **optional configuration** to SkyPilot in the ``~/.sky/config.yaml`` file.

Configuration sources and overrides
-----------------------------------

SkyPilot allows you to set configuration globally in ``~/.sky/config.yaml``, in your project, or for specific jobs, providing flexibility in how you manage your configurations.

> For example, you can have a :ref:`project configuration<config-client-project-config>` storing default values for all jobs in a project, a :ref:`user configuration<config-client-user-config>` to apply globally to all projects and :ref:`Task YAML overrides<config-client-cli-flag>` for specific jobs.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, you can have a :ref:`user configuration<config-client-user-config>` to apply globally to all projects, a :ref:`project configuration<config-client-project-config>` storing default values for all jobs in a project, and :ref:`Task YAML overrides<config-client-cli-flag>` for specific jobs.
```
so it has the same order as line above
